when it comes to what you might call
familiar faces in the automotive world
there aren't many more familiar than the
Chevrolet Suburban it seems like it's
been around forever 76 years to be exact
and the 2013 suburban is exactly what
you'd come to expect from the
traditional full-sized SUV big with a
capital B and how about seating for as
many as nine adults and as much as
ninety six hundred pounds in showing
capacity that takes some muscle plus
you've got two models to choose from the
1500 and 2500 and a total of five trim
levels altogether
how many SUVs offer seven eight or nine
passenger seating the suburban does
depending on whether the first two rows
are buckets or benches the third row
bench can handle three adults but it's
cramped back there especially up around
your shoulders and the third row seat
doesn't fold down so if you need the
maximum 137 cubic feet of cargo space
you have to remove that seat completely
it's heavy and will take some work
the instruments are easy to read and the
switchgear is easy to get at and the
electronics are shall we say less than
cutting-edge it does have USB iPod
interface navigation Bluetooth
connectivity and a backup camera
depending on the trim level but many
other SUVs offer more technology
the suburban gets his power from one of
two v eights a 320 horsepower 5.3 liter
in the 1500 while the 2500 gets a bigger
six litre with 352 horsepower both come
with a six-speed automatic and you can
go with a rear-wheel or four-wheel drive
with low range how's the driving
experience well this is a big heavy
vehicle and it corners like one there is
body roll of plenty but it's quite
inside at any speed and with four-wheel
drive the suburban is virtually
unstoppable
unfortunately it guzzles gasoline in the
process especially in the city you may
get less than a dozen miles per gallon
around town the good news it burns flex
fuel or regular but you will feel safe
thanks to everything from ABS to three
row head curtains with a rollover sensor
and a blind-spot warning system on duty
pricing out a 2013 suburban will take
you from forty three thousand two
hundred ninety five dollars for a base
1500 to over fifty nine thousand for the
four-wheel drive 1500 LTZ before adding
the optional goodies and the powertrain
is covered by a five year 100,000 mile
warranty you might want to compare the
suburban to the cadillac escalade esv
that smaller but has more features and
technology the Infiniti qx56
also a bit smaller but more upscale and
refined in the Toyota Sequoia
again down on size but packing more
power than the suburban the Chevy
Suburban will fit the bill if going
large is important to any fans of
full-size SUVs it's a big comfortable
box on wheels that's been doing it
since back in the day